is it even still possible to grow on
Instagram what about like Mega viral
growth of course if you ask me I'm going
to say yes from personal experience I've
grown by 600 000 followers in the last
two years and now it's literally my job
to help other creators grow their brand
or business on social media as well but
you're probably used to hearing me talk
about this by now if you're not then
feel free to binge any of the hundreds
of previous build your tribe episodes
that we've put out about how to grow on
Instagram but today I'm going to be
sharing with you a conversation that I
recently had with another Instagram
expert at just 19 years old Devin has
built a massive Instagram following and
a massive business through that
following in fact he's grown by about
200 000 followers just this year and
there's a few things that I love about
his content some of which we're
definitely going to talk about in
today's podcast but he really stood out
to me Khmer do all of the other
Instagram creators online because you
see there are hundreds of Instagram
coaches online many of them are
absolutely awesome I'm friends with many
of them and I really respect a lot of
their work I'm not trying to throw shade
at any of them but Devin just does it
different his content is really bold
it's in your face and its editing is
really top-notch I originally discovered
him over on Tick Tock but as you'll hear
him describe in today's episode his
focus is almost primarily exclusively on
Instagram and so if you're someone who
wants to grow your following on
Instagram you feel stuck you feel
helpless you feel like no matter what
you do nothing is quite sticking nothing
is quite moving the needle or working on
Instagram then today's episode is right
for you but when I say right for you
it's not necessarily the episode that
you want to hear in this episode you're
not going to hear how many hashtags you
should be using or what trending audio
is about to blow up you're not going to
hear some special hack that you've never
heard before instead you're going to get
met face to face with the truth the
reality of growing on Instagram how do
you actually get eyeballs on your
content and attention on your profile
that's what we're going to be diving
deep into today and I love the way Devin
shares so much value not just in his
content but also in today's episode so
make sure you buckle up grab a pen and a
piece of paper and take some notes if
you aren't already make sure you're
subscribed to the podcast and go ahead
and visit Devin's page which I will link
up down in the show notes below this
episode but whether you're brand new to
Growing your following on Instagram or
you've been doing it for years and you
just need to get that engagement back
and revive your account this interview
is definitely one that you're going to
want to listen to all the way from start
to finish and probably multiple times so
without further Ado let's hop into that
interview
Devin welcome to the podcast so excited
to have you here appreciate that man
it's a long time coming yeah it is a
long time coming I originally found your
stuff on Tick Tock uh it was gosh
there's probably like four or five
months ago now and I was like wow this
guy like I really like the way you
present your stuff we're gonna talk more
about that later but I just really like
what you were saying and um I think
compared to a lot of other
you know social media coaches out there
you deliver some serious value and
you're not just sharing the same cookie
cutter repeating the same tips that
everyone else is like there's some
actual value there's some actual
original thought and so I love that but
I would like to First backtrack a little
bit and just get to know you know tell
us a little bit more about who you are
what is your background and how did you
get into social media marketing managing
that sort of thing so it's been a lot
longer than people think I'm only 19 so
like people hear that but I've been
doing it for around six years now at the
beginning I focused on making money
playing fortnite and that was like my
main goal but within that I had what I
call the PC optimization that was my
first ever business and within that
basically what you would do is you would
go on to other people's computers and
then optimize them for better
performance and with that it was a
business but I don't have any money to
advertise this so my first advertisement
was on Tick Tock and that video is still
up today I'm not gonna tell you guys
because I don't want you guys to see it
but uh that was my first ever adventure
and then from that
um I had to go door knocking for a while
and that sucked because I was selling
solar door door and at that I was
watching a Shark Tank Episode and within
that what's his name Mr Wonderful do you
know his actual name yeah yeah
he asked one of the guys that was
pitching how many how many social media
followers do you have and at that moment
I got the idea of social media marketing
I thought I was the first guy I ever do
it and Teletubby and the other guys
within the space and then um one of our
found you guys I just figured there's
something other people are doing it why
can't I I love that that's awesome
that's hustling so tell me more about
like what inspired this hustle so you
said you're 19 now but you've been doing
this for like six or seven years that
means you started when you were like a
freaking in middle school so what what
started this hustle what what inspired
the grind
this sounds cliche I just didn't want to
be average I mean whenever I went to
school and the teachers were teaching me
something my thought process was you're
not currently where I want to be so I
want to listen to you and then the only
people that I saw that was making money
that me being like 13 were the people
that I was watching online which people
were playing in fortnite and stuff like
that that was like the sparkle a game
whenever I was 13.
um so that was the only way that I saw
so that's just what I went with gotcha
gotcha all right so now let's fast
forward tell me exactly what it is you
do now what does your day-to-day look
like and then big picture like how would
you label yourself
I like to just say I mean like my
elevator pitch that I say uh to raise
curiosity is I make millionaires famous
on social media nowadays I would say my
day to day it looks a little bit
different I'm in Miami right now for
about three months so it's a little bit
different now because you have the
course but a normal day-to-day I mean
it's pretty boring wake up work gen work
go to sleep gotcha yeah all right so
what's working right now and actually
you know before I even ask this question
why are you in Miami right now you just
briefly mentioned the course why are you
in Miami what's going on so I actually
have my video editor in that room he
does all my content and I have the
content researcher that gets me all my
ideation and stuff like that in another
room because I want to have the team
together and then as well as Miami so I
kind of like the hot spot for podcasts
and stuff like that I just want to be a
little bit more connected then also to
see what's possible every single day you
see a Lambo driving down the street so
that's definitely something to Aspire
towards gotcha yeah I love that um being
basically surrounded by the inspiration
surrounded by the you know the goals I
love that so what's working right now on
social media and let's get more specific
you know what's working right now on
Instagram and or Tick Tock that might
not or that wasn't working a few months
ago or what was working a few months ago
that is not working anymore what can you
tell me about some of the recent changes
that you've noticed so personally I
don't necessarily look at it that way I
mean I don't really care to keep up with
that kind of stuff the only thing that I
noticed especially between the different
platforms and I'll look at it as this is
what works on Instagram this works on
Tick Tock look at it as it is if it's
entertaining then it will be shown I
look at the intensification of the
platform itself if people watch your
content the platform is not provides to
push it to more people because they get
more money so one thing I really focus
on is trying to make it to where not to
only what people want to watch my videos
itself then getting them to watch it
through the through its full lengths
that's pretty much like the only thing
that I necessarily focus on whenever it
comes to the short form content gotcha
what informs your decision making there
a bit about you know I hear what you're
saying the platform wants to keep people
on the platform your content needs to be
entertaining but how do you know what is
entertaining how do you know what's
going to work and what isn't like what
what informs your script writing and
your editing and all of that well first
thing I can say is don't throw at
the wall I mean look at what's working
uh that's kind of like my main thing is
look at what other people are saying and
then try to look at it within your own
way and then secondly I mean like you
said beforehand I focus very very
heavily on giving out the actual value
and with that being said I'll look at it
as reinforcements you have positive and
negative reinforcement if you're the
kind of guy that just sells stuff 24 7
versus the guy that just gives away free
stuff like for example the best example
in the guy that people think about is
Alex Emoji you're going to build up
positive reinforcement within your
audience to where whenever they see your
face they're going to watch your video
because you've already given them value
and value and value beforehand so I mean
if somebody sees your content beforehand
and you keep on delivering on the value
every single post I see it as it doesn't
even have to be really entertaining it's
just this is familiar and I already have
gotten something from this before so
that's just kind of coming cool gotcha
that totally makes sense so many people
recently at least what I've been hearing
they're reporting that on Tick Tock and
on Instagram their views are going down
they're getting less engagement than
they use used to so if you or someone
and you're not you're someone who's in
the opposite boat your views are going
up your engagement's looking great if
you or someone though who they were
experiencing that Decline and people
were paying less and less and less
attention what tips would you give them
to bring them back is there something
strategically they could be doing is it
improving their content how can they get
that attention back on their content
so I don't like to look at it like
theoretical because realistically no one
really knows first off I think the main
thing is to realize that you suck
because if it was a good video people
would watch it that's kind of the good
thing about social media if it's a bad
video anybody will see this you don't
have to worry about it but it's a good
video everyone see it so you're in the
good light if your contest is not
performing on the world I mean it's not
necessarily anything that's going to be
fancy or this new strategy that you can
go use it's just more so look at what
other people are doing realize the
competition is rising and you're
currently falling down within that
competition Rank and try to get better
love it I love it I love that I love the
brutal honesty and that's something that
really stands out to me in your content
very specifically is you know you're
calling out your followers you're
cursing at them you're like yelling at
them and you're you know saying stuff
like you suck and and I I think that
that could be really harsh for people to
hear but it's also really true is like
at the end of the day if your content
isn't performing it's your content's
fault and it's your responsibility as
the creator of that content You Know
Your Hooks are always very bold and like
in your face and I think that's awesome
how do you come up with your hooks is it
looking at what works for other people
and kind of putting your own spin on it
or how do you come up with yours so
hooks are pretty native there's not many
people that say that like the kind of
things that I'm willing to say on social
media so it's like that had to be coming
up with it by itself the main thing I
realized and kind of focused on is that
negativity will always outweigh
positivity I mean it's just like if
somebody calls your mom fat versus if
they called her sweet you're obviously
more emotion towards someone calling
your mom fat so that's like the main
thing I focus on is just how can I be
negative in a positive way or if I am
I'm going to be negative how can I
redeem myself afterwards by giving them
a positive
um whenever it comes to hooks just try
to think about what would grab
somebody's attention I mean I don't have
any gotcha gotcha and now I've noticed
that uh you personally I I could be
wrong here but I seem like I usually see
you more so on Instagram and Tick Tock
less so on YouTube is that true or are
you on YouTube and I'm just missing out
on on the good stuff there what's going
on nah uh we haven't been posting on
YouTube man that's definitely in the
upcoming uh we already have it scheduled
out for the first posting but I'm
focused on I need to though I guess
definitely something everybody should do
yeah I agree I'm with you there it seems
like a lot of your content revolves
around Instagram would you say that's
true and a fair assessment or is your
focus pretty balanced between Instagram
and Tick Tock because at the end of the
day they're both primarily short form
video based content I don't care about
Tick Tock at all like if you look at my
account I don't put any effort into the
captions or anything like that only
thing I really care about is Instagram
if you were to go to the bar which I
can't because I'm 19 but if you were to
to the bar I mean you met this dude it
would either be hey man cool
conversation do you want my number on my
Instagram like you will not ever say hey
bro what's your Tick Tock like this is
not gonna come up so I think those two
main platforms and then just watch
Instagram's just more monetizable in the
sense of they have stories broadcast
channels people don't check their Tick
Tock DM so check the Instagram DMS I'll
be seeing this so much more of a dynamic
platform yeah yeah I'm with you there I
think there's so much more selling
potential on Instagram that's good to
hear though where do you think
Instagram's headed I mean I know you
said yourself you're headed on onto
YouTube and you're going to start
sharing content there where do you think
Instagram's headed in the next year
maybe two years three years
I mean I'm just gonna get it goes with
the flow uh what I hope that they don't
do is I hope that they don't go in the
direction on Tick Tock and make it less
of a follower based platform I do like
Instagram and the fact that it is a
follower based platform and at least if
you do have followers your content will
be shown to some of them at least but if
you look at other platforms like for
example YouTube's starting to shy away
from that a lot subscriptions don't
matter on YouTube then the same thing
with Tick Tock followers don't really
matter all that much it's pretty much
like a vanity metric that's something I
don't hope Instagram does
yeah I mean whatever happens goes with
the flow I just got to give views about
that I love that um you know earlier you
were talking about how your hooks are
you know they're very in your face and
you dare to be you know quote unquote
negative and say things that a lot of
other Instagram coaches wouldn't or
couldn't say and what I would what I've
noticed in watching that is that your
content would then appeal to like a very
specific audience you know a lot of my
followers might not appreciate that
exact hook but you obviously have built
a massive audience and a large following
who does really pay attention to those
sorts of hooks and they really do
appreciate and listen to those uh sorts
of hooks and that sort of content so my
question is how did you decide who your
target audience was going to be and was
that like a conscious decision or was
that you just kind of expressing who you
were I feel like it was an unconscious
decision until now like it was just like
okay how can I get views I need money
all right and then um I went down that
path and then I got the audience that I
got typically my more popular customer
will be some kind of Fitness guy or they
will be more so on the rigid and harder
side which is honestly I don't really
mind it's just now I get to freely speak
on how I want to speak and I like the
box that I put myself in that makes
sense yes yeah I'm sure that's um it's
freeing in a way because you put
yourself in this box but the Box you put
yourself in is a box that like you align
with and it like makes sense to you so
now you don't have to force yourself to
talk a certain way or like censor
yourself you can be who you are you in
your content and on your you know
courses coaching whatever else and so I
think that's that's really smart
yeah so earlier you mentioned you know
you said you I got my editor in this
room over here I got this guy over here
researching Trends so tell me about your
team and first question is when did you
first start hiring a team
first question when did I start hiring a
team I would say okay so during like the
fortnite era whenever I was 13 I would
say whenever I was 15 I was streaming
every single day and I had a guy that
used to watch My Stream his name is
chain and Chain's been with me for like
the past four years or so he recently
stopped working with this XYZ but he was
always technically a Chronicle hire but
um whenever I hired like a sort of like
a bigger team and like actually like
in-house people that were picking a
decent amounts I would say my first hire
would have been in maybe March or April
gotcha gotcha and so now how many people
do you have on your team first one was
really in March or April how many people
now are we including editors or just
like at all around editors anyone who
helps you do what you do I'm so like 30
maybe 35 wow wow that's impressive
um was it something that you were scared
to start hiring people or were you were
like I need to do this and so I got to
do it there was this one guy on one of
my previous clients he kind of made an
analogy about business is that it looks
like a bow so at the left side you have
it really really wide and then you have
to start pretty much making it thinner
and thinner and thinner and thinner
until it gets white again so after I
heard that analogy it kind of eased me a
little bit about spending a lot of money
because I had really low profit margins
but now I'm on the bigger side of the
bow so I think it's just something you
have to do gotcha do you think it is too
late we're shifting gears a little bit
here back to the conversation around
social media do you think it's too late
for people to grow on Instagram or too
late for people to grow on Tick Tock
because that's what I hear on a daily
basis
I mean it's the easiest it will ever be
yeah I mean today is the easiest that it
will ever be moving forward
um that goes for everything two years
ago YouTube you know what I mean it was
everybody was like oh it's too late too
late too late the bar just raised the
bar is going to keep racing if you look
back at it in like the 1930s you told
the president that he could post a video
and it'd be shown out to a billion
people to look at it as like they would
sell their soul for that one ability
that one power and we all have that
power now just it's just a skill you
gotta learn gotcha you talk about
raising the bar and leveling up how do
you strategically do that if let's say
you're watching this and you are a 35
year old Fitness coach and you're a solo
entrepreneur you're making content just
on your phone what tips would you give
that person to take their content to the
next level and and start raising that
bar themselves well okay so for the
specific example of the fitness guy I
think that that would be like pretty
easy
um especially because of the saturation
within the niche the biggest thing that
I can say is go look at what's currently
working I mean like that's what I do
personally I'll go through your account
other guys accounts as well and more so
see what is the trend on what's working
what do people actually want to see
because so many times we'll guess and
what people want to see and it just
doesn't work out that way
then as well as finding people that you
want to replicate what I have is I have
a common quotes competitor list and then
from there I'll add like at least like
70 guys that's when we're running out of
ideation or I just need more inspiration
whenever it comes to how I want to make
this hook I want to come across what
information do I want to relay I'll go
look at the 70 guys on my competitor
list and then just create from there
um to get quote unquote better I think
it's just more sub reps if you're
Fitness if I told you I've asked you how
do I get stronger you tell me go in the
gym and lift weights I see the same
concept
that totally makes sense what do you
think about
um you know is their phone good enough
or do they need to like go buy a like
we're both on this professional
microphone we both got a nice camera
with a blurry background do they need to
invest in all that stuff or or like
chill out do that in the future my
fourth video on my phone with like a
maybe 30 camera I mean 30 microphone got
a million views like it was just like
everybody's searching somewhere and
especially when it comes to Fitness and
it's things that are a little bit more
native to platform I don't really see it
as a hindrance I see it as a camera like
not not a necessity at all I would say
it's more so a what you're trying to
portray like for example if you say I'm
rich and you're talking about how to
make money then you probably should look
like you make money but for Fitness I
mean like there's so many different ways
that you can show that you're fit I
don't think that the camera quality is
really going to matter all that much
that makes sense totally makes sense
um you know I was I was thinking about
how there's so many things that we're
told to avoid on Instagram like you know
don't buy followers don't um buy
engagement don't do follow and follow
like those are the basics but are there
any mistakes that you see people making
present day that maybe they're not
talked about enough or uh they're just
things that you see a lot of people are
doing and you're like oh I I don't
recommend people do that maybe it's a
little thing in their content anything
that you would tell us to avoid you know
something I'm seeing more and more
especially with entrepreneurs is the
shadow Pages it's not necessarily
something I would I would promote
firstly ask yourself would I be doing
this if I had 100 million views every
single video if you would not do it then
don't do it now because they're just
making up for the lack of skills you
have to get those 100 million views but
then secondly like shout out pages and
stuff like that people will kind of use
that as a crutch when it comes to
promoting their product and my only
problem with that is firstly whenever
you're paying Shadow pages are typically
the motivational pages and you got to
think do the people that want to watch
motivational content 24 7 that watches
the guy that we're not supposed to speak
it on speak about on social media all
these different things that typically
going to be guys my age without money so
I will not pay shout out Pages it's
probably like the main Trend that I'm
seeing now and then especially because
if you are a tax accountant and you're
paying shout out Pages now you're
getting half your followers that just
want motivational content and you teach
people taxes and it's going to over
their head you're gonna have a terrible
follower to view ratio I just look at it
as post content don't do anything else
gotcha gotcha and just so we're clear by
Shadow Pages you mean the pages that you
know they got 300 000 followers and if
you pay them 20 bucks they'll shout you
out on their Instagram story something
like that right right just repost your
video get it some engagement and that's
it gotcha okay so around this topic of
getting more views 100 million views
going viral reaching thousands and
thousands of people with every single
post you make that's all awesome and
that's really great for you know casting
a wide net and bringing a lot of people
in but now the people are here they're
following you you have a an audience of
a large group of followers how do you go
deep with those people and build a
community how do you build like a real
sense of trust with them is it not
something you really think about or
worry about or do you have any tips you
can share there
well the first thing I'm going to do is
decentralize your audience I know you
did that pretty well uh with this email
list whether it's your Discord telegram
Etc uh make sure you own the audience
and Instagram doesn't own it for you and
then secondly I'll look at it I look at
it the same way as who do I want to
replicate when it comes to content who
don't want to replicate whenever it
comes to success now typically always
defaults back to Alex or Mosey
realistically I'm not in any of these
communities or anything like that I just
trust him off of what he's giving me
within his own content so if he gives me
value that's worth five dollars every
single time that I'm going to be willing
to invest into whatever he has to sell
me that totally that totally makes sense
that totally makes sense so you're
you're basically appealing to someone
who who isn't as if I'm understanding
correctly isn't as interested in like oh
I need that really strong Community
you're you're really into the individual
person you're following the individual
Creator entrepreneur and if that
person's giving value then you know
yourself you're going to invest in their
course their their membership whatever
it is they're selling yeah I mean I just
don't focus on a lot of the external
variables like for example for me I'm
never I have like 25 000 people on the
email list I've never sent the email a
day in my life
it's just not something that I've taken
the time to do it's more so I probably
have the highest viewer average across
like everybody within the niche just
because I've never ever posted anything
different than just value a lot of
people will preached to say hey you need
to post about your kids make yourself
more relatable x y and z
I don't I don't think doctors because of
what they do for their kids if I have a
brain tumor I want a neurosurgery only a
neurosurgeon and I want him to be a
robot because I look at business the
same way yeah I'm totally with you
that's that's that's great to hear that
echoed because a lot of people would
disagree with that and a lot of people
push back of you know oh but that limits
me and my content that limits me I want
to share about my kids and so it's
really great to hear you know at the end
of the day Instagram is a business and
so we need to treat it like a business
and uh you know you don't like you said
I love the doctor analogy if you have a
neurosurgeon you don't care necessarily
if he's got three kids if he's got eight
kids if he's got no kids you want him to
be a robot I love that
Scott's job to do yep exactly tell us a
little bit more how can we work with you
I know we were talking off air before we
got started how you're getting ready for
this launch upcoming and you said you
have a huge email list but you haven't
sent any emails to them and all of your
content is purely valuable so how can we
pay you like if we want to take this to
the next step how can we you know learn
more from you on like a deeper level
so soon we will have some sort of
landing page across some sort of offer
what we have right now is called media
Mastery and it's going to be a typical
group coaching program also plus the
course blah blah blah but realistically
right now um we're only looking towards
just trying to make sure the product is
ready to promote uh for the 18th time
during this podcast referencing back to
hermosi you can either Market a product
for the rest of your life or work on it
for a decent amount of time and then the
products will Market itself for you so
it's kind of like my main goal right now
we dropped the agency model like we used
to have an agency we completely dropped
it dropped all the clients now we're
just going full full time on trying to
make the best product that we possibly
can and then I would say sometime soon
within probably the next two weeks or so
we will be able to launch it to the
public and then let in a small majority
of people minority very exciting uh tell
me I have two more questions for you
second to last question is something
that my followers I know I hear they
really struggle with because a lot of
them they have multiple jobs or they
have multiple kids and a job and they
got to do this thing around the house
and so consistency is their struggle how
do you stay consistent what are your
tips what are your thoughts around
staying consistent on on Instagram or on
social media okay I have a different
situation everybody else I'm 19. I had
absolutely no responsibilities I have my
car notes and that is it so I have a
little bit of a different situation but
just the basic everyone has 24 hours
within the day uh people have priorities
and whatever your priorities are is
where you'll be spending your time if
there's something that you actually want
to do you'll make time to do so it's not
something you want to do then
watch my content I mean like it's either
you want to play you want to want or you
want to be in the stands either way yeah
all right and then last question is just
any last words of advice any words of
encouragement that you would like to
share with this audience any takeaways
that you want to make sure they they
hear from this episode
um to not try to reinvent the will uh
Sonos has already done it and done it
better than you realize that people have
done that and then go try to reimitate
it don't need anything to start all you
need to do is to start the best thing
that I've ever been told is the only way
to start is to start it which sounds
really duh but it's something I tell
myself a lot and then as well as
all right so that's probably it I mean
just start and um one thing that I will
say and that helps me out a lot is
always to track what's currently working
within your own contents and then try to
reimitate it so for example if you were
to post 90 videos starting today and you
were to stick to that for to post every
single day for the next 90 days across
those 90 days you're going to have at
least a couple outliers well there's
three four five six eight
find those allies within your own
content put into Google Sheets whatever
sorted by most utilities food within
your own content that you posted within
the past 90 days and then reimitate that
content for the next 30 days and you'll
do just fine but that makes sense yeah
that totally makes sense that totally
makes sense and very that's very
practical that makes sense to me thank
you so much for being here Devin I
really appreciate it and I hope everyone
learned something of course Brock
appreciate you for having me as I told
you before we got started Devin delivers
value and he delivers value without the
fluff he's telling it like it is and
it's absolutely straightforward I know
it's harsh I know it sucks to hear
sometimes but really there are only
three ways to grow on Instagram the
three ways to grow are to improve the
quality of your content to start
Distributing and posting more content
basically upping your quantity or to
increase your engagement now of course
there are numerous strategies and
they're constantly changing in terms of
how do you boost your engagement how do
you actually improve your quality how do
you tweak these little things in your
daily schedule and routine so you can
stay more consistent and increase your
quantity many of those tip tips and
strategies have been shared in previous
build your tribe episode then you can
find them also linked up in the show
notes but I also wanted to let you know
about our insta Club Hub which is where
all of our Instagram strategies and
coaching are available inside the club
which we update on a weekly basis we
keep you abreast with all of the
knowledge that you need to know about
Instagram because Instagram is a beast
right and there's so much that you could
know but ultimately there's a lot of
stuff that you don't need to really
worry about if your goal is to increase
your following or increase your sales so
our focus in the club is delivering for
you the actual tangible valuable tips
that you need in order to grow your
following not all the extra fluff not
all the stuff that's going to make a
small difference but the big picture
that's going to make a big difference in
your sales and in your new followers on
Instagram if you want to check out the
club you can join for just seven dollars
there's a link down in the description
below this video below the show notes of
this episode as well but again I want to
thank you so much for listening today
make sure you give Devin a follow if you
haven't already and I'll see you in the
next episode
thank you
[Music]